# How Mentorship Program Works

The Mentorship program is a phase-by-phase progress:

1. **Reviewing Submitted Application:** After you submit your application, and apply to project\(s\), it takes a minimum of two weeks of time to evaluate your application. You are advised to complete the prerequisite tasks during this time period failing which your application will not be considered for the mentorship program. You can check your application status by navigating to your Linux Foundation account. For details about how to submit application, and apply to project\(s\), see [How to Apply](how-to-apply.md).
2. **Mentee Contract:** If you are selected for the mentorship program, you will be contacted through email or phone, and you will have to undergo contract and HR processes.
3. **Mentee Working:** This is the time when you actually learn and contribute to the community. During this period, you are expected to dedicate your quality time, and work with your mentor in structuring a project planning, understanding open source culture, development tooling and infrastructure, making steady progress towards completing objectives, milestones, and tasks as defined in the project plan, and actively contribute to the community to successfully complete the course. You can start by making small contributions to the projects. You are highly encouraged to contribute to documentation.
4. **Evaluation:** You will be evaluated on a periodic basis by your mentors.The reason behind this is to get feedback from your mentor about your progress, and to check if you are completing your objectives and milestones as per the project planning , and are actively participating in community discussions, and so on. **Note:** Depending on the project, there will be three or four evaluations during the entire program. Based on your evaluation report, stipend will be released.
5. **Stipend:** Payments happen after completion of each evaluation time. Stipends are released if your evaluation report shows satisfactory progress of your mentorship training. The total stipend amount is paid phase wise after each evaluation, and the stipend amount for each evaluation varies from project to project. 
6. **Letter of Completion:** If you successfully finish the program by completing all your project milestones, deliverables and assigned tasks, which may include an exam, you will also be asked to write and publish a blog to receive a digital Letter of Completion at the end of the program. Hurray! You graduated. **Note:** Get in touch with your Program Manager or Mentor to help you with writing and publishing a blog.
7. **Travel Funding:** Mentees who successfully complete the mentorship program will be provided with travel funding to attend a project or community event or conference. It is a great opportunity for you to showcase your work to the broader community and to network with professionals in the field.

